################################
Courage To Be Disliked: A Review
################################

:date: 2019-02-13 16:20
:tags: book
:category: Random
:slug: courage-to-be-disliked-a-review
:author: John Nduli
:status: draft

Courage to be disliked is a book that explains Adlerian psychology. It
does so in the form of a dialog, between a student and a master. Here
are the various ideas I got from reading the book:

Etiology vs Teleology
---------------------
Etiology is when someone focuses on the past, and uses past experiences
and events to explain what has currently happened. The text is heavily
against this, since it provides an easy way out of various problems that
occur in life. The book however emphasizes on teleology, which is where
one focuses on the now, and tries to find out why various things have
happened. A good example of this is when one goes to the doctor, who
doesn't try to figure out what past event caused some disease, but
rather focusses on the current symptoms and treating the current
ailment.

The biggest problem with etiology however, is that it can lead to self
determinism. This is where one believes that how their life
progresses has already been determined by events in the past, and that
nothing can change this.

Teleology also provides a new insight into various events and reactions.
For example, people tend to blame some reactions on their anger, as
though it was a separate entity from themselves. However, anger is a
tool that can be used to achieve some goal. A good example of this is
when a mother is angrily scolding their child. If the mother receives a
phone call, she'll put the anger away and calmly receive the call.
Afterwards, she becomes angry again and continues to scold the child.
This shows that the mother is using anger as a tool against her child.

Teleology also provides a means of understanding why changing one's
lifestyle seems difficult. People tend to remain in their lifestyle
because it's comfortable and easy to predict. Lifestyles may also
provide good explanations for some decisions one has made. For example,
someone who dreams of becoming a novelist yet their job keeps them too
busy. A teleological explanation of why the novelist doesn't quit would
be that s/he is using the job (instead of quiting and focussing on the
novel) because he is actually afraid of criticism of his novel or that
s/he may produce inferior writing. Later on in their lives, they will
use the reason of old age for this too.


Weakness and Strength
---------------------
Key emotions that tend to help people become better are the feeling of
inferiority and the pursuit of superiority. They help support one's
striving for growth. However, when these feelings become a hindrance,
they develop into complexes. The inferiority complex occurs when one
uses their feelings of inferiority as an excuse in life.  For example,
one can claim that they cannot be successful because they are
uneducated, and therefore won't try to overcome this obstacle. The
superiority complex is whereby one has the feeling of inferiority but
doesn't have the strength to strive for growth. They compensate for this
by associating with people or things they feel are superior e.g. some
brands of clothes or some celebrities.

Weakness can make one strong and powerful. For example, the baby can
control the parents because it is weak. Some people tend to cling to
their weaknesses so as to get some hold of people. If someone tries to
help them overcome their weakness, they use the fact that the other
party cannot possible understand their feelings as a deterrent.
However, in doing so, they become slaves to their weaknesses and end up
unable to survive without this.

Going through life as though it is a competition is another form of
weakness. This is because if competition is at the core of one's
interpersonal relationships, one will start viewing people as enemies
who must not be underestimated. This makes the world a scary place to
live in.

Also when having a discussion with someone, the moment it becomes a
power struggle, one should step down. This is because the conversation
has derailed from that of providing information/opinion to that of
winner and losers. Also, avoid criticizing the other party just because
you think you're right, otherwise the conversation will degenerate into
a power struggle.

Life Tasks
----------
Another interesting concept introduced in the book is that of tasks. An
individual has three main classifications of tasks:

- Task of friendship
- Task of work
- Task of love

Separation of tasks is whereby one decides to what point one's own tasks
go, and from which point the tasks become another person's. Once this is
done, one should do their own tasks to the best of their ability, and
only lend a hand to others when needed. However, one should be careful
not to encroach on another person's territory. To help with this, one
needs a good way of figuring out ownership of a task. An indication of
this is who will eventually benefit if the task is done.

In interpersonal relationships, it is the individual's task to believe
in the other party. How the other party behaves with regard to said
belief is not the individual's task. So if the other party takes
advantage of you, that is still their task. If one feels the
relationship is becoming problematic, it should be severed (which is the
individual's task).

It is also one's task to live one's life the best way one believe in. The
judgement passed by people about one's life is not one's task. This
therefore means one is free to do as one pleases. In fact, freedom can
be defined as being disliked by other people.  This is because being
disliked by others is proof that one is living life as one would please,
not trying to satisfy others.

Furthermore, if a task is beyond one's capability, one needs to accept
this and move forward in doing what one can do (self acceptance) thus
one avoids lying to oneself. This is counter to self affirmation, where
one uses phrases like 'I can do it', when something is cleary beyond
one's ability. A good example for this is in exams, where if someone
fails they will either say 'I was unlucky this time' (self affirmation)
or accept what they got and try to improve for the next exam (self
acceptance).

People try to be special because they cannot accept their normal selves.
They therefore equate being normal with being incapabale. However, with
self acceptance, once accepts their ordinary selves. One should then
have the courage to be normal. 

The problem with aiming to be special (having lofty goals) is that one
views life like climbing a mountain, where if they do not reach the
peak, they have not reached their "real life". This means they are not
living in the present. The greatest life lie of all is in fact to not
live here and now. A better alternative is to view life as a series of
moments, without a destination. This way, one ends up living their "real
life" every day, every hour and every minute. 

"Life in general has no meaning. Whatever meaning life has must be
assigned to it by the individual."
