Ref: https://medium.com/@NataliMorad/part-2-how-to-be-an-adult-kegans-theory-of-adult-development-ddf057b4517b

Self-authorship: defining and reshaping what you believe, your sense of self and
you relationships with others, rather than uncritically accepting them from
others.

How/what do I know? (Beliefs) - generating and coordinating one's own beliefs,
values and internal loyalties.
Who am I? (Intrapersonal) - being concerned with personal integrity, aligning
actions with values
How do I want to construct relationships with others? (Interpersonal) - thinking
about feelings and relationships instead of being subject to them.

Key is to view yourself as object, something that can be evaluated, analyzed and
understood.

*How to get there*
cultivating the internal voice: we practise curiosity, critical reflection and
openness. We become curious about ourselves, and stop taking ourselves for
granted or thinking that we've got ourselves all figured out

To practice curiosity, ask yourself:
- what do I think? Most of us don't really know what we believe, think and
  value, but rather repeat what we hear or experience from parents, friends,
  community, etc without taking time to analyze our thoughts. Conversations
  rarely get deep enough to challenge us to think about what we think.
  For example: what do you think about the phrase "love means never having to
  say you're sorry." We've all heard this before but what does it mean to me? Do
  I agree/disagree and why? State my opinion in a full sentence.
  Practice this throughout the day, pay attention to what I see and hear around
  me, stop for a second and be curious about what I think and ask: what do I
  actually think about this and why? Key is to state my thoughts in a coherent
  sentence. Other questions can be: "What do I think a relationship should look
  like and why?", "How do I know that someone is a good friend?", "What's my
  policy on honest and why?"

Question 2, what do I want? Defining what we want and clearly
communicating those wants to those we care about. We spend too much time
managing and reacting to others' wants and not enough on clarifying what we
want, thus we have the habit of doing things because we feel guilty of bad
instead of doing them because they align with the person we want to be. We need
to practice *operating from the pace of what do I want vs what do other people
want from me* e.g. author was in camp where everyone was expected to help out,
and for first two days they felt guilty for not helping out enough and started
worrying about how others saw them, hence they started helping uut more (because
they felt guilty and didn't want the judgement) but these feelings persisted, a
smaller better shift could have been to ask 'what do I want?', to be a
contributing memeber or to bail on my responsibilities. We're after clarity, so
be very specific with your wants. Using big/vague words like 'I want to care
more' or 'I want more responsibility' causes conflict and misunderstandings, so
do the work and first figure out what you want e.g. I want you to check in with
me once a day, I want you to take the lead on Project X, etc. The clearer the
wants, the easier it is for me and others to make decisions.

Question 3: What are my motivations? There are higher motivations (good reasons
that come from our higher selves, the person we want to be or imagine ourselves
to be) and lower motivations (real reasons that come from our lower selves
driven by guilt, desire, ego, uncertainty) e.g. I'll criticize a colleagure
because I want to help them improve their performance (higher reason) but I may
also want to make them feel bad or make myself feel better (lower motivation).
We all have these motivations, the main question is which are driving me more
and why? and which ones do I want to drive me more and why? What kind of person
do I want to be? Its impossible to get rid of the lower motivations, but we can
manage them (instead of letting them control me). We take these lower
motivations and make them object, something we can explore analyze and manage,
to get to know them and be curious about them. We start to practice openness and
being open to myself as I really am.


## Building a self-authored system - honoring internal commitments
I've identified what I think, believe and want, and why. I need to live
according to this system, thus I honor my internal commitments. How? I make
decisions that are aligned with my wants and values. Every decision I make is a
change to get closer to what I want, but there's a gap between what we say we
value and how we actually behave e.g. in dating, people say they want a serious
committed relationship but will date people that are unavailable.

It takes a lot of work to align our actions with our values, and its easier to
follow the path of least resistance (but this is where I am or it heads in the
wrong direction).

So practice by making small decisions that align with my values.

When we honor our internal commitments, we gain confidence. The more I do it,
the more confident I become.
