##########################
Principles in Buying Stuff
##########################

A common bias I get is impulse buying, anchor bias where I'll see something and
think of a reason why I would need this. Most of the time, I end up not getting
the item, but I dislike the seconds where my brain desires it. (TODO: Think of
other biases)


I read an article about how if I want to buy something, I should first buy the
cheapest thing I can find. If I use it enough such that it breaks, I then go and
buy the best I can find. I really liked this and I applied it to various things
I've been buying.

A good example is my laptop, where I bought the thinkpad t440 last year for 32K.
I'd wanted to buy the upper end think pads, but thought I'd try it out with this
first. Turns out this has the specs I need, and I'm rarely worried about
performance and such. Even better yet, if this model ever breaks, I'll most
likely get another similar one. I think this is the extra bit I've found out.
When I buy the cheaper tools, I sometimes find out that they are ok for me, and
I really didn't need all those extra flashy specs.

Another one I found out about buying the most expensive tools you can find is
that maintenance is usually a headache. This happened with our electric shower
head. When I moved in, we bought the best and most expensive head our
electrician could find. A year later, the heating element got busted, and they
couldn't find a replacement. Two weeks in with cold water, we went for the
cheaper electric one. Turns out that replacement parts should be another
consideration when doing purchases that I hadn't considered. This also happened
with my brother's laptop (an ultrabook) where he'd accidentally poured water on
the keyboard, and it needed to be replaced. We spent weeks looking for someone
that had an alternative.

Another one that happened was that we had a touch screen laptop (a dell
something), and the screen got spoiled. We haven't been able to get a
replacement for this so far. All repair shops we go to, have a price of half the
laptop price and it's irritating. I gave up on touch laptops after this
(although I didn't even use the touch functionality).
