Title: About
Date: 2016-12-06
Category: Pages
Slug: about
Author: John Nduli
Status: published

## WHO AM I? ##

I'm Nduli and this is my small bit on the internet. I love technology,
using it, building and discovering it. The best discovery I've had is
linux and vim. Linux because it's easy to customize, for example window
managers (there are tiling, dynamic and stacking window managers). Vim
because it's light and powerful (although it took some time to get used
to). And more FOSS tech I've used along my journey.

I sometimes design circuits and mechanisms. I put these on
[github](https://github.com/jnduli) or
[grabcad](https://grabcad.com/john.nduli-1).

And then there's books. I love books (reading them). My current
favorites include _Behind the Beautiful Forevers_, _Axiomatic_ and
_Courage To Be Disliked_.

## WHY THE BLOG ##

I use this to self document the problems I experience while working and
the solutions I come up with. I work on a wide range of technologies and
sometimes I find a fix here and there that needs recording for future
reference. I've found this works better than re-reading the original
source of the solution (I think this is becaue I understand my words
better).

Also it works as a place to let my opinions loose. Perhaps on a book
here, a movie there, some policy, etc.

## WHY PELICAN ##

Pelican is easy to use and set up. I even created my own theme for it
([letter_theme](https://github.com/jnduli/letter_theme)). I also get to
edit my articles using vim, and generate the blog using my terminal. I
do most of my work from the terminal, so why not add blogging too.

## DISCLAIMER ##
Please keep this in mind while reading the blog:

_Stuff just is. My mental model of how the world works is incomplete. It
has boundaries. I'm constantly relearning stuff. That, there, is the
thing. Knowing that I'm limited in how I perceive stuff. There is
strength in these "limits" though, they enable you to filter noise and
make decisions. ~ Bonface Munyoki_
